docs/devices/4512706.md, before:

---
title: "Namron 4512706 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Namron 4512706 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home
 infrastructure you are using without the vendors bridge or gateway."
---

*To contribute to this page, edit the following
[file](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt.io/blob/master/docs/devices/4512706.md)*

# Namron 4512706

| Model | 4512706  |
| Vendor  | Namron  |
| Description | Remote control |
| Supports | action |
| Picture | ![Namron 4512706](../images/devices/4512706.jpg) |

## Notes

None

## Manual Home Assistant configuration
Although Home Assistant integration through [MQTT discovery](../integration/home_assistant) is preferred,
manual integration is possible with the following configuration:


{% raw %}
```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    unit_of_measurement: "%"
    device_class: "battery"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.battery }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:gesture-double-tap"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.action }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:signal"
    unit_of_measurement: "lqi"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.linkquality }}"
```
{% endraw %}

Commit message:

simulated_brightness docs. https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee-herdsman-converters/pull/1613

docs/devices/4512706.md, after:

---
title: "Namron 4512706 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Namron 4512706 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home
 infrastructure you are using without the vendors bridge or gateway."
---

*To contribute to this page, edit the following
[file](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt.io/blob/master/docs/devices/4512706.md)*

# Namron 4512706

| Model | 4512706  |
| Vendor  | Namron  |
| Description | Remote control |
| Supports | action |
| Picture | ![Namron 4512706](../images/devices/4512706.jpg) |

## Notes

### Device type specific configuration
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../information/configuration.md)*

* `simulated_brightness`: Set to `true` to simulate a `brightness` value (default: `false`).
If this device provides a `brightness_move_up` or `brightness_move_down` action it is possible to specify the update
interval and delta. This can be done by instead of specifying `true`:

```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```


## Manual Home Assistant configuration
Although Home Assistant integration through [MQTT discovery](../integration/home_assistant) is preferred,
manual integration is possible with the following configuration:


{% raw %}
```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    unit_of_measurement: "%"
    device_class: "battery"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.battery }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:gesture-double-tap"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.action }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:signal"
    unit_of_measurement: "lqi"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.linkquality }}"
```
{% endraw %}
