docs/devices/HGZB-1S.md, before:

---
title: "Nue / 3A HGZB-1S control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Nue / 3A HGZB-1S via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home
 infrastructure you are using without the vendors bridge or gateway."
---

*To contribute to this page, edit the following
[file](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt.io/blob/master/docs/devices/HGZB-1S.md)*

# Nue / 3A HGZB-1S

| Model | HGZB-1S  |
| Vendor  | Nue / 3A  |
| Description | Smart 1 key scene wall switch |
| Supports | on/off, click, action |
| Picture | ![Nue / 3A HGZB-1S](../images/devices/HGZB-1S.jpg) |

## Notes


### Deprecated click event
By default this device exposes a deprecated `click` event. It's recommended to use the `action` event instead.

To disable the `click` event, set `legacy: false` for this device in `configuration.yaml`. Example:

```yaml
devices:
  '0x12345678':
    friendly_name: my_device
    legacy: false
```


## Manual Home Assistant configuration
Although Home Assistant integration through [MQTT discovery](../integration/home_assistant) is preferred,
manual integration is possible with the following configuration:


{% raw %}
```yaml
switch:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    payload_off: "OFF"
    payload_on: "ON"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.state }}"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/set"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:toggle-switch"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.click }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:gesture-double-tap"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.action }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:signal"
    unit_of_measurement: "lqi"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.linkquality }}"
```
{% endraw %}

Commit message:

Refactory specifying device type specific configuration.

docs/devices/HGZB-1S.md, after:

---
title: "Nue / 3A HGZB-1S control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Nue / 3A HGZB-1S via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home
 infrastructure you are using without the vendors bridge or gateway."
---

*To contribute to this page, edit the following
[file](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt.io/blob/master/docs/devices/HGZB-1S.md)*

# Nue / 3A HGZB-1S

| Model | HGZB-1S  |
| Vendor  | Nue / 3A  |
| Description | Smart 1 key scene wall switch |
| Supports | on/off, click, action |
| Picture | ![Nue / 3A HGZB-1S](../images/devices/HGZB-1S.jpg) |

## Notes


### Deprecated click event
By default this device exposes a deprecated `click` event. It's recommended to use the `action` event instead.

To disable the `click` event, set `legacy: false` for this device in `configuration.yaml`. Example:

```yaml
devices:
  '0x12345678':
    friendly_name: my_device
    legacy: false
```

### Device type specific configuration
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../information/configuration.md)*

* `legacy`: Set to `true` to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended!)


## Manual Home Assistant configuration
Although Home Assistant integration through [MQTT discovery](../integration/home_assistant) is preferred,
manual integration is possible with the following configuration:


{% raw %}
```yaml
switch:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    payload_off: "OFF"
    payload_on: "ON"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.state }}"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/set"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:toggle-switch"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.click }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:gesture-double-tap"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.action }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:signal"
    unit_of_measurement: "lqi"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.linkquality }}"
```
{% endraw %}
