docs/devices/ptvo.switch.md, before:

---
title: "Custom devices (DiY) ptvo.switch control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Custom devices (DiY) ptvo.switch via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home
 infrastructure you are using without the vendors bridge or gateway."
---

*To contribute to this page, edit the following
[file](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt.io/blob/master/docs/devices/ptvo.switch.md)*

# Custom devices (DiY) ptvo.switch

| Model | ptvo.switch  |
| Vendor  | Custom devices (DiY)  |
| Description | [Multi-channel relay switch](https://ptvo.info/zigbee-switch-configurable-firmware-router-199/) |
| Supports | hold, single, double and triple click, on/off, type, rssi |
| Picture | ![Custom devices (DiY) ptvo.switch](../images/devices/ptvo.switch.jpg) |

## Notes


### Deprecated click event
By default this device exposes a deprecated `click` event. It's recommended to use the `action` event instead.

To disable the `click` event, set `legacy: false` for this device in `configuration.yaml`. Example:

```yaml
devices:
  '0x12345678':
    friendly_name: my_device
    legacy: false
```


## Manual Home Assistant configuration
Although Home Assistant integration through [MQTT discovery](../integration/home_assistant) is preferred,
manual integration is possible with the following configuration:


{% raw %}
```yaml
switch:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    payload_off: "OFF"
    payload_on: "ON"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.state_l1 }}"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/l1/set"

switch:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    payload_off: "OFF"
    payload_on: "ON"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.state_l2 }}"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/l2/set"

switch:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    payload_off: "OFF"
    payload_on: "ON"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.state_l3 }}"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/l3/set"

switch:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    payload_off: "OFF"
    payload_on: "ON"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.state_l4 }}"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/l4/set"

switch:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    payload_off: "OFF"
    payload_on: "ON"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.state_l5 }}"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/l5/set"

switch:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    payload_off: "OFF"
    payload_on: "ON"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.state_l6 }}"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/l6/set"

switch:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    payload_off: "OFF"
    payload_on: "ON"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.state_l7 }}"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/l7/set"

switch:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    payload_off: "OFF"
    payload_on: "ON"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.state_l8 }}"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/l8/set"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.l1 }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.l2 }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.l3 }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.l4 }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.l5 }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.l6 }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.l7 }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.l8 }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:toggle-switch"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.click }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    unit_of_measurement: "°C"
    device_class: "temperature"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.temperature }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    unit_of_measurement: "V"
    icon: "mdi:alpha-v"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.voltage }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    unit_of_measurement: "hPa"
    device_class: "pressure"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.pressure }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    unit_of_measurement: "%"
    device_class: "humidity"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.humidity }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:gesture-double-tap"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.action }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:signal"
    unit_of_measurement: "lqi"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.linkquality }}"
```
{% endraw %}

Commit message:

Refactory specifying device type specific configuration.

docs/devices/ptvo.switch.md, after:

---
title: "Custom devices (DiY) ptvo.switch control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Custom devices (DiY) ptvo.switch via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home
 infrastructure you are using without the vendors bridge or gateway."
---

*To contribute to this page, edit the following
[file](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt.io/blob/master/docs/devices/ptvo.switch.md)*

# Custom devices (DiY) ptvo.switch

| Model | ptvo.switch  |
| Vendor  | Custom devices (DiY)  |
| Description | [Multi-channel relay switch](https://ptvo.info/zigbee-switch-configurable-firmware-router-199/) |
| Supports | hold, single, double and triple click, on/off, type, rssi |
| Picture | ![Custom devices (DiY) ptvo.switch](../images/devices/ptvo.switch.jpg) |

## Notes


### Deprecated click event
By default this device exposes a deprecated `click` event. It's recommended to use the `action` event instead.

To disable the `click` event, set `legacy: false` for this device in `configuration.yaml`. Example:

```yaml
devices:
  '0x12345678':
    friendly_name: my_device
    legacy: false
```

### Device type specific configuration
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../information/configuration.md)*

* `legacy`: Set to `true` to disable the legacy integration (highly recommended!)


## Manual Home Assistant configuration
Although Home Assistant integration through [MQTT discovery](../integration/home_assistant) is preferred,
manual integration is possible with the following configuration:


{% raw %}
```yaml
switch:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    payload_off: "OFF"
    payload_on: "ON"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.state_l1 }}"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/l1/set"

switch:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    payload_off: "OFF"
    payload_on: "ON"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.state_l2 }}"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/l2/set"

switch:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    payload_off: "OFF"
    payload_on: "ON"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.state_l3 }}"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/l3/set"

switch:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    payload_off: "OFF"
    payload_on: "ON"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.state_l4 }}"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/l4/set"

switch:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    payload_off: "OFF"
    payload_on: "ON"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.state_l5 }}"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/l5/set"

switch:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    payload_off: "OFF"
    payload_on: "ON"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.state_l6 }}"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/l6/set"

switch:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    payload_off: "OFF"
    payload_on: "ON"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.state_l7 }}"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/l7/set"

switch:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    payload_off: "OFF"
    payload_on: "ON"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.state_l8 }}"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/l8/set"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.l1 }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.l2 }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.l3 }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.l4 }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.l5 }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.l6 }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.l7 }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.l8 }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:toggle-switch"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.click }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    unit_of_measurement: "°C"
    device_class: "temperature"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.temperature }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    unit_of_measurement: "V"
    icon: "mdi:alpha-v"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.voltage }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    unit_of_measurement: "hPa"
    device_class: "pressure"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.pressure }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    unit_of_measurement: "%"
    device_class: "humidity"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.humidity }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:gesture-double-tap"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.action }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:signal"
    unit_of_measurement: "lqi"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.linkquality }}"
```
{% endraw %}
