docs/devices/ROB_200-007-0.md, before:

---
title: "ROBB ROB_200-007-0 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your ROBB ROB_200-007-0 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home
 infrastructure you are using without the vendors bridge or gateway."
---

*To contribute to this page, edit the following
[file](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt.io/blob/master/docs/devices/ROB_200-007-0.md)*

# ROBB ROB_200-007-0

| Model | ROB_200-007-0  |
| Vendor  | ROBB  |
| Description | Zigbee 8 button wall switch |
| Supports | action |
| Picture | ![ROBB ROB_200-007-0](../images/devices/ROB_200-007-0.jpg) |
| White-label | Sunricher SR-ZG9001K8-DIM |

## Notes


### Pairing
First reset. Press and hold the upper two buttons for 5 seconds untill led lights up (contiunously blue or green). Then press the upper "0" 5 times - depending on the model, or in a pace of 2 times per second or in a pace of 5 times per second. Second pair. Press and hold the upper two buttons for 5 seconds again, untill the led turns on. Then press the "0" once. It should now enter pair mode an start blinking - if it does not get connected, just try the second step again.


## Manual Home Assistant configuration
Although Home Assistant integration through [MQTT discovery](../integration/home_assistant) is preferred,
manual integration is possible with the following configuration:


{% raw %}
```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:gesture-double-tap"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.action }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    unit_of_measurement: "%"
    device_class: "battery"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.battery }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:signal"
    unit_of_measurement: "lqi"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.linkquality }}"
```
{% endraw %}

Commit message:

simulated_brightness docs. https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee-herdsman-converters/pull/1613

docs/devices/ROB_200-007-0.md, after:

---
title: "ROBB ROB_200-007-0 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your ROBB ROB_200-007-0 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home
 infrastructure you are using without the vendors bridge or gateway."
---

*To contribute to this page, edit the following
[file](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt.io/blob/master/docs/devices/ROB_200-007-0.md)*

# ROBB ROB_200-007-0

| Model | ROB_200-007-0  |
| Vendor  | ROBB  |
| Description | Zigbee 8 button wall switch |
| Supports | action |
| Picture | ![ROBB ROB_200-007-0](../images/devices/ROB_200-007-0.jpg) |
| White-label | Sunricher SR-ZG9001K8-DIM |

## Notes


### Pairing
First reset. Press and hold the upper two buttons for 5 seconds untill led lights up (contiunously blue or green). Then press the upper "0" 5 times - depending on the model, or in a pace of 2 times per second or in a pace of 5 times per second. Second pair. Press and hold the upper two buttons for 5 seconds again, untill the led turns on. Then press the "0" once. It should now enter pair mode an start blinking - if it does not get connected, just try the second step again.

### Device type specific configuration
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../information/configuration.md)*

* `simulated_brightness`: Set to `true` to simulate a `brightness` value (default: `false`).
If this device provides a `brightness_move_up` or `brightness_move_down` action it is possible to specify the update
interval and delta. This can be done by instead of specifying `true`:

```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```


## Manual Home Assistant configuration
Although Home Assistant integration through [MQTT discovery](../integration/home_assistant) is preferred,
manual integration is possible with the following configuration:


{% raw %}
```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:gesture-double-tap"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.action }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    unit_of_measurement: "%"
    device_class: "battery"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.battery }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:signal"
    unit_of_measurement: "lqi"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.linkquality }}"
```
{% endraw %}
