docs/integration/home_assistant.md, before:

---
---
# Home Assistant

*NOTE 1: This file has been generated, do not edit this file manually!*

*NOTE 2: If you are using the [Zigbee2MQTT Hass.io add-on](https://github.com/danielwelch/hassio-zigbee2mqtt)
use their documentation*


## MQTT discovery
**NOTE:** Groups are not auto-discovered, see configuration below.

The easiest way to integrate Zigbee2MQTT with Home Assistant is by
using [MQTT discovery](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/mqtt/discovery/).
This allows Zigbee2MQTT to automatically add devices to Home Assistant.

To achieve the best possible integration (including MQTT discovery):
- In your **Zigbee2MQTT** `configuration.yaml` set `homeassistant: true`
- In your **Home Assistant** `configuration.yaml`:

{% raw %}
```yaml
mqtt:
  discovery: true
  broker: [YOUR MQTT BROKER]  # Remove if you want to use builtin-in MQTT broker
  # birth_message and will_message is not required anymore for Home Assistant 0.113 >=
  birth_message:
    topic: 'hass/status'
    payload: 'online'
  will_message:
    topic: 'hass/status'
    payload: 'offline'
```
{% endraw %}

Mind you that if you want to use the embedded broker of Home Assistant you
have to [follow this guide](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/mqtt/broker#embedded-broker).

Zigbee2MQTT is expecting Home Assistant to send it's birth/will
messages to `hass/status`. Be sure to add this to your `configuration.yaml` if you want
Zigbee2MQTT to resend the cached values when Home Assistant restarts

## Home Assistant device registry
When using Home Assistant MQTT discovery, Zigbee2MQTT integrates
with the [Home Assistant device registry](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/en/device_registry_index.html).
This allows you to change the Home Assistant `device_id` and `friendly_name` from the web interface
without having to restart Home Assistant. It also makes it possible to show which entities belong to which device.

![Changing name and device ID via web interface](../images/home_assistant_change_name.png)

![Device registry](../images/home_assistant_device_registry.png)

## Customizing discovery
The device specifc configuration allows you to modify the discovery payload. Here you can also prevent a device from being discovered. See [Device specific configuration](../information/configuration.md) for the available options.

## I'm confused about the different device IDs, names and friendly names
- Home Assistant `device_id`: determined on first discovery of the device, can only be changed
via the Home Assistant web interface afterwards. Used to control/read the state from the device (e.g. in automations)
- Zigbee2MQTT `friendly_name`: used to change the MQTT topic where the device listens and publishes to.
- Home Assistant `name`: name shown in the Home Assistant UI (unless overridden
via a `friendly_name` in `customize.yaml`). If not changed via the Home Assistant web interface,
it is equal to the Zigbee2MQTT `friendly_name`. Is updated if the Zigbee2MQTT `friendly_name` changes
(requires restart of Home Assistant)
- Home Assistant `friendly_name` (`customize.yaml`): overrides the name in the Home Assistant web interface.

## Responding to button clicks
To respond to button clicks (e.g. WXKG01LM) you can use one of the following three Home Assistant configurations.

### Via MQTT device trigger (recommended)
[MQTT device trigger](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/device_trigger.mqtt/) is the recommended way to respond to button clicks.
Note that it atleast requires Home Assistant 0.106.0.

The MQTT device triggers are discovered by Zigbee2MQTT once the event is triggered on the device once.

{% raw %}
```yaml
automation:
  - alias: Respond to button click
    trigger:
    - device_id: ad44cabee4c646f493814306aa6446e1
      discovery_id: 0x000b57fffecb472d action_arrow_left_click
      domain: mqtt
      platform: device
      subtype: arrow_left_click
      type: action
    action:
      entity_id: light.my_bulb_light
      service: light.toggle
```
{% endraw %}

If you only plan to use this and want to disable the *Via Home Assistant entity* integration below, set `homeassistant_legacy_triggers: false` (see [Configuration](../information/configuration.md) for more info).

### Via Home Assistant entity

{% raw %}
```yaml
automation:
  - alias: Respond to button click
    trigger:
      platform: state
      entity_id: sensor.my_switch_click
      to: 'single'
    action:
      entity_id: light.my_bulb_light
      service: light.toggle
```
{% endraw %}

### Via MQTT
As an alternative to the above way of integrating, you can also listen to MQTT topics.

{% raw %}
```yaml
automation:
  - alias: Respond to button clicks
    trigger:
      platform: mqtt
      topic: 'zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME'
    condition:
      condition: template
      value_template: '{{ "single" == trigger.payload_json.click }}'
    action:
      entity_id: light.bedroom
      service: light.toggle
```
{% endraw %}

## Groups
Groups are not auto-discovered.
With the configuration below, grouped devices in Zigbee2MQTT will be exposed as a single device in Home Assistant.
The following example will show you how to add a group of lights to Home Assistant.
It has to be added to the Home Assistant `configuration.yaml`.

{% raw %}

```
light:
  - platform: mqtt
    schema: json
    name: MY_GROUP_NAME
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/[GROUP_FRIENDLY_NAME]/set"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/[GROUP_FRIENDLY_NAME]"

    // Modify according to features supported by all devices in group
    color_temp: true
    brightness: true
    rgb: true
```

{% endraw %}

## Controlling Zigbee2MQTT via Home Assistant
The following Home Assistant configuration allows you to control Zigbee2MQTT from Home Assistant.

You can add it to the appropriate section of your `configuration.yaml`, or you can add it as a [Home Assistant Package](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/configuration/packages/) by adding the following to `zigbee2mqtt.yaml` in your packages folder.

{% raw %}
```yaml
# Input select for Zigbee2MQTT debug level
input_select:
  zigbee2mqtt_log_level:
    name: Zigbee2MQTT Log Level
    options:
      - debug
      - info
      - warn
      - error
    initial: info
    icon: mdi:format-list-bulleted

# Input text to input Zigbee2MQTT friendly_name for scripts
input_text:
  zigbee2mqtt_old_name:
    name: Zigbee2MQTT Old Name
  zigbee2mqtt_new_name:
    name: Zigbee2MQTT New Name
  zigbee2mqtt_remove:
    name: Zigbee2MQTT Remove

# Scripts for renaming & removing devices
script:
  zigbee2mqtt_rename:
    alias: Zigbee2MQTT Rename
    sequence:
      service: mqtt.publish
      data_template:
        topic: zigbee2mqtt/bridge/config/rename
        payload_template: >-
          {
            "old": "{{ states.input_text.zigbee2mqtt_old_name.state | string }}",
            "new": "{{ states.input_text.zigbee2mqtt_new_name.state | string }}"
          }
  zigbee2mqtt_remove:
    alias: Zigbee2MQTT Remove
    sequence:
      service: mqtt.publish
      data_template:
        topic: zigbee2mqtt/bridge/config/remove
        payload_template: "{{ states.input_text.zigbee2mqtt_remove.state | string }}"

# Timer for joining time remaining (120 sec = 2 min)
timer:
  zigbee_permit_join:
    name: Time remaining
    duration: 120

sensor:
  # Sensor for monitoring the bridge state
  - platform: mqtt
    name: Zigbee2MQTT Bridge state
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: mdi:router-wireless
  # Sensor for Showing the Zigbee2MQTT Version
  - platform: mqtt
    name: Zigbee2MQTT Version
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/config"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.version }}"
    icon: mdi:zigbee
  # Sensor for Showing the Coordinator Version
  - platform: mqtt
    name: Coordinator Version
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/config"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.coordinator }}"
    icon: mdi:chip

# Switch for enabling joining
switch:
  - platform: mqtt
    name: "Zigbee2MQTT Main join"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/config/permit_join"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/config/permit_join"
    payload_on: "true"
    payload_off: "false"

automation:
  # Automation for sending MQTT message on input select change
  - id: zigbee2mqtt_log_level
    alias: Zigbee2MQTT log level
    initial_state: "on"
    trigger:
      platform: state
      entity_id: input_select.zigbee2mqtt_log_level
    action:
      - service: mqtt.publish
        data:
          payload_template: "{{ states('input_select.zigbee2mqtt_log_level') }}"
          topic: zigbee2mqtt/bridge/config/log_level
  # Automation to start timer when enable join is turned on
  - id: zigbee_join_enabled
    alias: Zigbee Join Enabled
    trigger:
      platform: state
      entity_id: switch.zigbee2mqtt_main_join
      to: "on"
    action:
      service: timer.start
      entity_id: timer.zigbee_permit_join
  # Automation to stop timer when switch turned off and turn off switch when timer finished
  - id: zigbee_join_disabled
    alias: Zigbee Join Disabled
    trigger:
      - platform: event
        event_type: timer.finished
        event_data:
          entity_id: timer.zigbee_permit_join
      - platform: state
        entity_id: switch.zigbee2mqtt_main_join
        to: "off"
    action:
      - service: timer.cancel
        data:
          entity_id: timer.zigbee_permit_join
      - service: switch.turn_off
        entity_id: switch.zigbee2mqtt_main_join
  - id: "zigbee2mqtt_create_notification_on_successfull_interview"
    alias: Zigbee Device Joined Notification
    trigger:
      platform: mqtt
      topic: 'zigbee2mqtt/bridge/log'
    condition:
      condition: template
      value_template: '{{trigger.payload_json.type == "pairing" and trigger.payload_json.message == "interview_successful"}}'
    action:
      - service: persistent_notification.create
        data_template:
          title: Device joined the Zigbee2MQTT network
          message: "Name: {{trigger.payload_json.meta.friendly_name}},
                    Vendor: {{trigger.payload_json.meta.vendor}},
                    Description: {{trigger.payload_json.meta.description}}"

```
{% endraw %}

The following is an example lovelace card configuration.

{% raw %}

```yaml
title: Zigbee2MQTT
type: entities
show_header_toggle: false
entities:
  - entity: sensor.zigbee2mqtt_bridge_state
  - entity: sensor.zigbee2mqtt_version
  - entity: sensor.coordinator_version
  - entity: input_select.zigbee2mqtt_log_level
  - type: divider
  - entity: switch.zigbee2mqtt_main_join
  - entity: timer.zigbee_permit_join
  - type: divider
  - entity: input_text.zigbee2mqtt_old_name
  - entity: input_text.zigbee2mqtt_new_name
  - entity: script.zigbee2mqtt_rename
  - type: divider
  - entity: input_text.zigbee2mqtt_remove
  - entity: script.zigbee2mqtt_remove
```

{% endraw %}

## Zigbee Network Map (Custom Card)
[Zigbee Network Map Home Assistant Custom Card](https://github.com/azuwis/zigbee2mqtt-networkmap/).

## Zigbee Network Map (Custom Component)
[Zigbee Network Map Home Assistant addon](https://github.com/rgruebel/ha_zigbee2mqtt_networkmap).

**NOTE:** This addon is not password protected (if you have provided external access to your Home Assistant instance **EVERYONE** can access your Network Map).

## Configuration when NOT using Home Assistant MQTT discovery
Visit the device page ([Supported devices](../information/supported_devices.md), click on the model number) to see the Home Assistant configuration when not using MQTT discovery.

Commit message:

Exposing switch as a light docs. https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt/pull/4647

docs/integration/home_assistant.md, after:

---
---
# Home Assistant

*NOTE 1: This file has been generated, do not edit this file manually!*

*NOTE 2: If you are using the [Zigbee2MQTT Hass.io add-on](https://github.com/danielwelch/hassio-zigbee2mqtt)
use their documentation*


## MQTT discovery
**NOTE:** Groups are not auto-discovered, see configuration below.

The easiest way to integrate Zigbee2MQTT with Home Assistant is by
using [MQTT discovery](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/mqtt/discovery/).
This allows Zigbee2MQTT to automatically add devices to Home Assistant.

To achieve the best possible integration (including MQTT discovery):
- In your **Zigbee2MQTT** `configuration.yaml` set `homeassistant: true`
- In your **Home Assistant** `configuration.yaml`:

{% raw %}
```yaml
mqtt:
  discovery: true
  broker: [YOUR MQTT BROKER]  # Remove if you want to use builtin-in MQTT broker
  # birth_message and will_message is not required anymore for Home Assistant 0.113 >=
  birth_message:
    topic: 'hass/status'
    payload: 'online'
  will_message:
    topic: 'hass/status'
    payload: 'offline'
```
{% endraw %}

Mind you that if you want to use the embedded broker of Home Assistant you
have to [follow this guide](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/mqtt/broker#embedded-broker).

Zigbee2MQTT is expecting Home Assistant to send it's birth/will
messages to `hass/status`. Be sure to add this to your `configuration.yaml` if you want
Zigbee2MQTT to resend the cached values when Home Assistant restarts

## Home Assistant device registry
When using Home Assistant MQTT discovery, Zigbee2MQTT integrates
with the [Home Assistant device registry](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/en/device_registry_index.html).
This allows you to change the Home Assistant `device_id` and `friendly_name` from the web interface
without having to restart Home Assistant. It also makes it possible to show which entities belong to which device.

![Changing name and device ID via web interface](../images/home_assistant_change_name.png)

![Device registry](../images/home_assistant_device_registry.png)

## Customizing discovery
The device specifc configuration allows you to modify the discovery payload. Here you can also prevent a device from being discovered. See [Device specific configuration](../information/configuration.md) for the available options.

## I'm confused about the different device IDs, names and friendly names
- Home Assistant `device_id`: determined on first discovery of the device, can only be changed
via the Home Assistant web interface afterwards. Used to control/read the state from the device (e.g. in automations)
- Zigbee2MQTT `friendly_name`: used to change the MQTT topic where the device listens and publishes to.
- Home Assistant `name`: name shown in the Home Assistant UI (unless overridden
via a `friendly_name` in `customize.yaml`). If not changed via the Home Assistant web interface,
it is equal to the Zigbee2MQTT `friendly_name`. Is updated if the Zigbee2MQTT `friendly_name` changes
(requires restart of Home Assistant)
- Home Assistant `friendly_name` (`customize.yaml`): overrides the name in the Home Assistant web interface.

## Responding to button clicks
To respond to button clicks (e.g. WXKG01LM) you can use one of the following three Home Assistant configurations.

### Via MQTT device trigger (recommended)
[MQTT device trigger](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/device_trigger.mqtt/) is the recommended way to respond to button clicks.
Note that it atleast requires Home Assistant 0.106.0.

The MQTT device triggers are discovered by Zigbee2MQTT once the event is triggered on the device once.

{% raw %}
```yaml
automation:
  - alias: Respond to button click
    trigger:
    - device_id: ad44cabee4c646f493814306aa6446e1
      discovery_id: 0x000b57fffecb472d action_arrow_left_click
      domain: mqtt
      platform: device
      subtype: arrow_left_click
      type: action
    action:
      entity_id: light.my_bulb_light
      service: light.toggle
```
{% endraw %}

If you only plan to use this and want to disable the *Via Home Assistant entity* integration below, set `homeassistant_legacy_triggers: false` (see [Configuration](../information/configuration.md) for more info).

### Via Home Assistant entity

{% raw %}
```yaml
automation:
  - alias: Respond to button click
    trigger:
      platform: state
      entity_id: sensor.my_switch_click
      to: 'single'
    action:
      entity_id: light.my_bulb_light
      service: light.toggle
```
{% endraw %}

### Via MQTT
As an alternative to the above way of integrating, you can also listen to MQTT topics.

{% raw %}
```yaml
automation:
  - alias: Respond to button clicks
    trigger:
      platform: mqtt
      topic: 'zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME'
    condition:
      condition: template
      value_template: '{{ "single" == trigger.payload_json.click }}'
    action:
      entity_id: light.bedroom
      service: light.toggle
```
{% endraw %}

## Groups
Groups are not auto-discovered.
With the configuration below, grouped devices in Zigbee2MQTT will be exposed as a single device in Home Assistant.
The following example will show you how to add a group of lights to Home Assistant.
It has to be added to the Home Assistant `configuration.yaml`.

{% raw %}

```
light:
  - platform: mqtt
    schema: json
    name: MY_GROUP_NAME
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/[GROUP_FRIENDLY_NAME]/set"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/[GROUP_FRIENDLY_NAME]"

    // Modify according to features supported by all devices in group
    color_temp: true
    brightness: true
    rgb: true
```

{% endraw %}

## Exposing switch as a light
If your device is currently discovered as a switch and you want to discover it as a light, the following config in the Zigbee2MQTT `configuration.yaml` can be used:

```yaml
devices:
  "0x12345678":
    friendly_name: my_switch
    homeassistant:
      switch:
        type: light
        object_id: light
        name: my_switch
      # OR if your devices has multiple endpoints (e.g. left/right)
      switch_left:
        type: light
        object_id: light_left
        name: my_switch_left
      switch_right:
        type: light
        object_id: light_right
        name: my_switch_right
```

## Controlling Zigbee2MQTT via Home Assistant
The following Home Assistant configuration allows you to control Zigbee2MQTT from Home Assistant.

You can add it to the appropriate section of your `configuration.yaml`, or you can add it as a [Home Assistant Package](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/configuration/packages/) by adding the following to `zigbee2mqtt.yaml` in your packages folder.

{% raw %}
```yaml
# Input select for Zigbee2MQTT debug level
input_select:
  zigbee2mqtt_log_level:
    name: Zigbee2MQTT Log Level
    options:
      - debug
      - info
      - warn
      - error
    initial: info
    icon: mdi:format-list-bulleted

# Input text to input Zigbee2MQTT friendly_name for scripts
input_text:
  zigbee2mqtt_old_name:
    name: Zigbee2MQTT Old Name
  zigbee2mqtt_new_name:
    name: Zigbee2MQTT New Name
  zigbee2mqtt_remove:
    name: Zigbee2MQTT Remove

# Scripts for renaming & removing devices
script:
  zigbee2mqtt_rename:
    alias: Zigbee2MQTT Rename
    sequence:
      service: mqtt.publish
      data_template:
        topic: zigbee2mqtt/bridge/config/rename
        payload_template: >-
          {
            "old": "{{ states.input_text.zigbee2mqtt_old_name.state | string }}",
            "new": "{{ states.input_text.zigbee2mqtt_new_name.state | string }}"
          }
  zigbee2mqtt_remove:
    alias: Zigbee2MQTT Remove
    sequence:
      service: mqtt.publish
      data_template:
        topic: zigbee2mqtt/bridge/config/remove
        payload_template: "{{ states.input_text.zigbee2mqtt_remove.state | string }}"

# Timer for joining time remaining (120 sec = 2 min)
timer:
  zigbee_permit_join:
    name: Time remaining
    duration: 120

sensor:
  # Sensor for monitoring the bridge state
  - platform: mqtt
    name: Zigbee2MQTT Bridge state
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: mdi:router-wireless
  # Sensor for Showing the Zigbee2MQTT Version
  - platform: mqtt
    name: Zigbee2MQTT Version
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/config"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.version }}"
    icon: mdi:zigbee
  # Sensor for Showing the Coordinator Version
  - platform: mqtt
    name: Coordinator Version
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/config"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.coordinator }}"
    icon: mdi:chip

# Switch for enabling joining
switch:
  - platform: mqtt
    name: "Zigbee2MQTT Main join"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/config/permit_join"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/config/permit_join"
    payload_on: "true"
    payload_off: "false"

automation:
  # Automation for sending MQTT message on input select change
  - id: zigbee2mqtt_log_level
    alias: Zigbee2MQTT log level
    initial_state: "on"
    trigger:
      platform: state
      entity_id: input_select.zigbee2mqtt_log_level
    action:
      - service: mqtt.publish
        data:
          payload_template: "{{ states('input_select.zigbee2mqtt_log_level') }}"
          topic: zigbee2mqtt/bridge/config/log_level
  # Automation to start timer when enable join is turned on
  - id: zigbee_join_enabled
    alias: Zigbee Join Enabled
    trigger:
      platform: state
      entity_id: switch.zigbee2mqtt_main_join
      to: "on"
    action:
      service: timer.start
      entity_id: timer.zigbee_permit_join
  # Automation to stop timer when switch turned off and turn off switch when timer finished
  - id: zigbee_join_disabled
    alias: Zigbee Join Disabled
    trigger:
      - platform: event
        event_type: timer.finished
        event_data:
          entity_id: timer.zigbee_permit_join
      - platform: state
        entity_id: switch.zigbee2mqtt_main_join
        to: "off"
    action:
      - service: timer.cancel
        data:
          entity_id: timer.zigbee_permit_join
      - service: switch.turn_off
        entity_id: switch.zigbee2mqtt_main_join
  - id: "zigbee2mqtt_create_notification_on_successfull_interview"
    alias: Zigbee Device Joined Notification
    trigger:
      platform: mqtt
      topic: 'zigbee2mqtt/bridge/log'
    condition:
      condition: template
      value_template: '{{trigger.payload_json.type == "pairing" and trigger.payload_json.message == "interview_successful"}}'
    action:
      - service: persistent_notification.create
        data_template:
          title: Device joined the Zigbee2MQTT network
          message: "Name: {{trigger.payload_json.meta.friendly_name}},
                    Vendor: {{trigger.payload_json.meta.vendor}},
                    Description: {{trigger.payload_json.meta.description}}"

```
{% endraw %}

The following is an example lovelace card configuration.

{% raw %}

```yaml
title: Zigbee2MQTT
type: entities
show_header_toggle: false
entities:
  - entity: sensor.zigbee2mqtt_bridge_state
  - entity: sensor.zigbee2mqtt_version
  - entity: sensor.coordinator_version
  - entity: input_select.zigbee2mqtt_log_level
  - type: divider
  - entity: switch.zigbee2mqtt_main_join
  - entity: timer.zigbee_permit_join
  - type: divider
  - entity: input_text.zigbee2mqtt_old_name
  - entity: input_text.zigbee2mqtt_new_name
  - entity: script.zigbee2mqtt_rename
  - type: divider
  - entity: input_text.zigbee2mqtt_remove
  - entity: script.zigbee2mqtt_remove
```

{% endraw %}

## Zigbee Network Map (Custom Card)
[Zigbee Network Map Home Assistant Custom Card](https://github.com/azuwis/zigbee2mqtt-networkmap/).

## Zigbee Network Map (Custom Component)
[Zigbee Network Map Home Assistant addon](https://github.com/rgruebel/ha_zigbee2mqtt_networkmap).

**NOTE:** This addon is not password protected (if you have provided external access to your Home Assistant instance **EVERYONE** can access your Network Map).

## Configuration when NOT using Home Assistant MQTT discovery
Visit the device page ([Supported devices](../information/supported_devices.md), click on the model number) to see the Home Assistant configuration when not using MQTT discovery.
